# DS-160_FP_NPA_JCR
## Wilt 
### Authors Jerrin Redmon & Naat Ambrosino

### Information from Dataset Source:
#### Data Set Information:
This data set contains some training and testing data from a remote sensing study by Johnson et al. (2013) that involved detecting diseased trees in Quickbird imagery. There are few training samples for the 'diseased trees' class (74) and many for 'other land cover' class (4265).

The data set consists of image segments, generated by segmenting the pansharpened image. The segments contain spectral information from the Quickbird multispectral image bands and texture information from the panchromatic (Pan) image band. The testing data set is for the row with “Segmentation scale 15” segments and “original multi-spectral image” Spectral information in Table 2 of the reference (i.e. row 5). Please see the reference below for more information on the data set, and please cite the reference if you use this data set. Enjoy!

##### Files
##### training.csv: training data set (4339 image segments)
##### testing.csv: testing data set (500 image segments)


#### Attribute Information:

##### class: 'w' (diseased trees), 'n' (all other land cover)
##### GLCM_Pan: GLCM mean texture (Pan band)
##### Mean_G: Mean green value
##### Mean_R: Mean red value
##### Mean_NIR: Mean NIR value (NIR means near infrared)
##### SD_Pan: Standard deviation (Pan band)

### Abstract
This project contains an exploratory analysis and implementation of machine learning algorithms for the Wilt Data Set from the UCI Machine Learning Repository. This data set contain information of image data for use in a program that determines if a tree is diseases or healthy. In this project we will go through the Wilt dataset to run machine learning to test the accuracy of the program. With this we can learn how these machine learning principle play out while also performing an exploratory analysis on the data set as well. The end goal is observing how well the algorithms performed on the data set and bring insight from it.
